we begin in Gaza where Israeli forces
have intensified their attacks in the
northern Central and Southern parts of
the besieged strip and video has emerged
showing at least a 100 Palestinian men
who've been stripped and made to kneel
on a street in Northern Gaza they've
been taking Refuge at three un run
schools in B lahia with their families
the Israeli Army took them to an
undisclosed location well the jabalia
refugee camp has been targeted again in
Israel's latest strikes a building
housing displaced people was hit and
overnight air strikes killed at least
five people in the noit camp funerals
have been held for six men killed in
Israeli raids in the alar refugee camp
in tobas that's in the occupied West
Bank the Army also stormed rala Hebron
and Bethlehem leading to
confrontations since Israel began its
war on Gaza
272 Palestinians have been killed in
raids in the occupied West Bank we'll
get more on the fighting in Gaza shortly
as well as what's happening in the
occupied West Bank but we first start in
occupied East Jerusalem because that's
where there is heavy security around
Thea MOS compound where tensions are
high and we have Sarah Kyra joining us
from occupied East Jerusalem so uh Sarah
the Palestinian worshippers trying to
get into AA we understand have been
banned by Israeli forces tell us about
that and what's been the
aftermath yeah that's right that's been
the case since October 7 when the Hamas
attack happened that's uh in a few days
we'll be uh heading into two months of
this every Friday prayer uh people over
a certain age are not allowed in anyone
usually it seems under the age of 65 for
men and for women it seems around under
the age of 45 are banded from from uh
performing their prayers at AA mosque
which is the third holiest site for
Muslims around the world um just earlier
when we were speaking to you we were
actually pushed back by the Israeli uh
forces just down uh the roads uh here to
my left is Wy jaws and this is an area
where the youngsters uh try and come
along as they do with their grandparents
and fathers and they are often pushed
back every week in fact they've been
pushed back by te gas and uh smelly
water now interestingly this week it
didn't happen before the uh prayers took
place and we thought that's strange it's
a very quiet Friday given that it's been
happening every week and given that
pattern and then as soon as people were
coming out and I'm just going to show
you where they were coming out from if
you come uh this way if you look just up
the road here to my left that entrance
there that takes you to the right where
that bus is going that is one of the
entrances to El AA Moss compound now
people were coming out worshippers were
coming out and before we knew it the uh
Israeli uh forces that you're seeing
just behind me here as well and all
around me in fact um they then were
heading in that direction to where the
Jaws in their dozens and were firing the
tear gas and smelly water of course we
were seeing Palestinians looking out
from their homes that's become a scene
they've become used to but it Still
Remains very difficult for them because
there's a restriction of movement not
just when it comes to the basic rights
such as performing prayers but even
movement around occupied East Jerusalem
shopkeepers have been told to shut their
shops earlier uh many people are doing
that just for fear of once once it's
dark and it's dark quite early now that
it's winter time um that they'll be
targeted by the Israeli forces uh for
really just being just being being
palestin opinion um if you fly the flag
it's always been illegal and certainly
now if you're showing any support for
those in Gaza that can land you in jail
and if you land in jail as a Palestinian
you might be there for years without any
charges without um even representation
without legal representation and even
children get held in detention last week
when we saw um the Palestinian prisoners
being released some of them were from
occupied East Jerusalem and they were
very very clearly told they would not be
allowed to celebrate that order was also
coming from itamar benir now that name
is important because he once was on The
Fringe of Israeli politics and then he
became part of this coalition government
a far right Israeli coalition government
with the likes of him he is the national
security minister he also has uh
convictions of uh inciting racism
against what they call Arabs Arabs I.E
Palestinians um he was also part of a a
far right Ultra nationalist group that
is was banned um and that just gives you
an idea that through him and through
other ministers such as bezel mmrc who
is the Finance Minister but also in
charge of the expansion of illegal uh
settlements illegal Israeli settlements
in occupied territories not just in the
West Bank but also in occupied East
Jerusalem 1,000 more than 1,700 of those
units were approved just a couple of
days ago right um so encroachment isn't
just in terms of land but it's also in
terms of everyday life and this is just
an example during okay thank you so much
Sarah Kat reporting from occupied East
Jerusalem